So you put in your application,
you got a call back, or
maybe a recruiter reached out to you
via LinkedIn or email or something, or
you met someone at a meetup,
it doesn't matter.
The application is done.
It's good.
You have the initial phone call with
the hiring manager or the recruiter.
So what do you do now?
Again, something you will do,
but we never think about and
this part is actually kind of important.
Questions that you should be prepared
to answer right off the bat.
I guarantee it doesn't
matter who the company is,
they're gonna ask these things,
if it's a hiring manager or recruiter.
What do you do currently?
You should know that like,
top your head you should have a one or
two sentence answer.
Me, I'm Jem.
I'm senior engineer at Netflix.
I work on one of the UI core teams and
I build stuff.
That's fine,
they'll say what sort of stuff?
I'll be like, I do a lot of Node these
days, but in previous roles in Netflix,
I built a lot of AB tests using
React with the Node back end.
That's they I wanna know.
They talk to a lot of people and
have it down, have you spiel down.
If you've ever done a recruiting
circuit where you've talked to seven or
eight companies at once,
when you look for a new job,
you know this will come up over and
over and over again, so just hone it now.
Another question you are gonna get asked
is what are some of the projects you've
worked on?
So what they're looking for
here is are you kind of leaning more
towards the backend or frontend?
So Node, that sort of thing.
Are you more full stack-y?
Are you heavy on accessibility?
Are you heavy on performance?
You should have the project you worked on,
what the challenges were, and
how you overcame them.
These questions will come up,
I promise you.
Another one is, what are you looking for
in your next role?
I want more money.
That's probably true,
you wanna get paid a little bit more, but
everybody wants to get
paid a little bit more.
What are you looking for
in your next role?
So say something about, I don't know,
maybe you want to learn something.
You want to work with people
that are smarter than you,
which we should all aspire to.
You wanna work with people who are smarter
than you, so I can learn from them.
Or I wanna solve challenging projects.
Or I wanna have a big
impact in my company.
I don't wanna be another cog in the wheel,
things like that.
But have an idea of what you're
looking for in your next role,
cuz they're gonna wanna know.
And you'd be surprised the number people
that get vetted out from the first call.
I say, how did so and so
do I mean we don't actually do this, but
hypothetically, I'd be
like how did my friend do?
They kind of mumbled a lot didn't
really seem like they had a direction.
They didn't really know what they want to
do and it's really hard to hire someone
who doesn't know if they
even want to work for you.
Give them a reason to want to hire you.
So I'm really passionate, really
enthusiastic, but I don't think I can
learn anymore in my current role, and so
I wanna move onto a different project.
Or I'm tired of, I don't know,
the finance space, and
I wanna move into healthcare,
something like that.
The question really is,
why do you wanna work for x?
Why do you wanna work for
Frontend Masters?
Have a reason, do some research.
Take two minutes, go to their website,
look at what they do and understand
the kind of projects they have, understand
the challenges they're working on.
And the last one is,
what is your availability for next steps?
Because that means they liked you.
That means that they wanna move you on
to the next round in the interview.
So what's your availability?
You should have your calendar open.
You say like, hey,
every Friday at four o'clock I'm free.
So we can do a phone screening,
code test, or whatever.
But be prepared.
I've never not had a phone
call with a recruiter or
hiring manager that didn't
have these questions on them.
I just wanna get you ready.
It's not the end of the world if
you're asked to think a little bit but
it's a lot easier if you're just smooth,
got it down like a science.